Welcome to our update!
The spiritual highlight of our year,
the Memorial of Christ’s death,
was observed
by God’s people on April 4, 2023.
In the weeks prior,
Jehovah’s Witnesses unitedly extended
the invitation to this event the world over.
This was the first time
since the pandemic began
that we could again offer
invitations for the Memorial
by means of the house-to-house
and public ministry.
No doubt many have been able to expand
their ministry during this Memorial season,
including those who could serve
as auxiliary pioneers
with the new 15-hour requirement.
It’s thrilling to think about the millions
of brothers and sisters and interested ones
who gathered for the Memorial
to show their appreciation
for the gift of the ransom.
When we face unexpected events or loss,
we are especially reminded
of how vital the ransom is.
As a brotherhood,
we were shocked to hear about the shooting
that occurred
at a Kingdom Hall in Hamburg, Germany,
in March 2023.
Please note the following video update.
On the evening of Thursday, March 9, 2023,
a terrible tragedy
happened in Hamburg, Germany,
after the midweek meeting concluded.
Sadly, four brothers and two sisters
as well as an injured sister’s
unborn child were killed.
In addition, two brothers
and seven sisters were seriously injured.
We are happy to report
that none of them are in intensive care.
Following the shooting,
direction was given
that all meetings in Hamburg
should be held by videoconference only.
The Hamburg-Winterhude Congregation
deeply desired to come together again
for in-person meetings as soon as possible.
Shortly thereafter,
approval was given for all meetings
to resume in person starting
with the very next midweek meeting.
Some of the injured
were even able to join the meeting
from the hospital, using Zoom.
The Central Europe Branch Committee
made immediate arrangements
to give comfort and support.
To bolster the relief committee
which had been appointed,
Branch Committee members
and their wives traveled to Hamburg
and accompanied
the responsible circuit overseer.
Special meetings were organized
to coordinate visits
to the affected brothers and sisters,
which often meant staying at their side
literally day and night.
Every day,
a tremendous number of letters and cards
from all over the world
continue to be delivered to the hall.
The brothers and sisters are completely
overwhelmed and deeply touched
by these expressions
of affection and fellow feeling.
All congregations within the state of Hamburg
were invited to a memorial service
held on Saturday, March 25, 2023.
More than 3,000 brothers and sisters
attended in person,
and over 90,000 connections
were made to view this program via stream,
many of whom viewed the program
with friends and family.
All in attendance
were touched by the heartwarming words
from Branch Committee members
as well as the visiting
Governing Body member and helper.
This memorial service provided
strong evidence of Christian love
—a convincing testimony that Jehovah’s people
do not face such situations alone.
Our brothers in Hamburg
have experienced Jehovah’s loyal love
throughout this very distressing situation.
After attending the funeral,
one sister wrote:
“The commemoration for the victims in Hamburg
“was most dignified and deeply moving.
“The profound Biblical thoughts,
“the unadulterated truth,
“the message of comfort,
love, trust, and hope
“delivered with such dignity,
tenderness, and empathy
“cannot but have moved every sincere heart
and has given a resounding witness
for our wonderful God, Jehovah.”
We have also received
many expressions of sympathy from officials,
organizations, and individuals
from around the world.
For example,
the Federal President of Germany said:
“To all of you dear bereaved,
“dear friends and companions of the victims,
“my sincere and deepest sympathy.
“You have the sympathy
of the people of Germany.
“They feel and mourn with you.
They share in your suffering.”
No doubt we all continue
to keep our brothers and sisters
in Hamburg in our prayers.
Another recent event
that’s had a significant impact
on our brothers and sisters
was Cyclone Freddy,
which struck East Africa.
In February and March 2023,
Cyclone Freddy made multiple landfalls
and brought strong winds,
heavy rain, and flooding.
Sadly, in Malawi,
eight publishers were killed
and three are currently missing.
And in Mozambique,
one publisher was killed and one is missing.
There’s extensive damage in Madagascar,
Malawi, and Mozambique.
Altogether, over 7,000 publishers
and their households were displaced.
More than 1,400 of our brothers’ homes
were damaged or destroyed,
and 24 Kingdom Halls
were damaged or destroyed.
The Branch Committees,
circuit overseers, and local elders
responded quickly
to provide comfort and support
along with help
for their immediate material needs.
Relief efforts are under way
to provide humanitarian aid
and to repair or rebuild
their Kingdom Halls and homes.
This may well be the largest relief effort
that our brothers in Malawi have faced.
Please keep these
dear brothers and sisters in your prayers
along with those
who are working hard to provide relief.
When we face trials or tragedies,
we are not the only ones who are affected.
At Isaiah 63:9, it says of Jehovah:
“During all their distress
it was distressing to him.”
This assures us that Jehovah is affected too.
He’s moved to help his faithful servants.
And especially during times of distress,
he can become our refuge.
He stands ready to help us.
But how can we benefit
from his help and protection?
Well, the answer can be found
in what we read at Psalm 91:9.
It says: “Because you said:
“‘Jehovah is my refuge,’
you have made the Most High your dwelling.”
It doesn’t just say
that “Jehovah is [our] refuge,”
but that we have made him our refuge.
We can make Jehovah our refuge
by drawing close to him during our trials.
How?
We lean on him in prayer,
we keep up our good spiritual routine,
we stay busy in the ministry,
and we look for ways to encourage others.
When we do this as individuals,
we make Jehovah our refuge.
Then, even when we do suffer tragedies
of one sort or another,
our faith and our spiritual security
will not be destroyed.
And when we do this as a brotherhood
—when we all turn to Jehovah
in times of distress—
it unites us further.
And it gives a wonderful witness.
An example of this is
what our brothers experienced
on Abaco Island in the Bahamas.
In 2019,
they suffered a Category 5 hurricane.
Hurricane Dorian destroyed
the only Kingdom Hall on the island
and damaged or destroyed
16 of our brothers’ homes.
What did our brothers do?
They made Jehovah their refuge.
They relied on him in fervent prayer.
They supported one another
through that trial.
And as soon as it was safe to do so,
the Kingdom Hall was rebuilt.
Recently, the Kingdom Hall was completed
and then dedicated in January 2023.
Let’s watch the following video.
The sun is shining—not a cloud in the sky.
We’re in Abaco to dedicate
this beautiful Kingdom Hall right here.
I can’t wait to be a part of this
and see this and be able to sing
with my brothers and sisters
from the Abaco Congregation
and the Haitian Congregation
and be able to hear our voices blend.
But what a blessing from Jehovah
that finally we can be here
for this wonderful program!
Here we are, three years later.
We just didn’t think that this day
would actually come.
I received a text message—I was at home—
“Pray for Abaco.”
The devastation
to the Kingdom Hall was so complete
that I think it is forever etched in my mind.
You could see the Kingdom Hall chairs
and our publications thrown all around.
It rips your heart apart
to see the Kingdom Hall like that.
We got to the airport,
and it looked like
there was no way out of this situation.
So the brother prayed,
and after he prayed,
it was like a window opened
for us to get out of there.
We got to Nassau.
There was food; there was clothing.
There was a—
It seemed like we were
having a convention where we landed.
There were
so many brothers there with placards,
singing at the top of their voice.
The operation was huge.
We almost had about 70 or 80 individuals
that came in and out.
It was a mini army as it were.
We were a few weeks away
from what was going to be the fastest
project I’ve ever worked on.
We were just absolutely
finishing houses at almost record speed.
The Kingdom Hall
was about to be ready for the Memorial.
So we could start to see the end,
and then we got the call that COVID
was putting an end to the project.
Our overseer got on stage,
and within three or four words,
he started crying.
I mean,
we knew it was because we had to leave.
Sitting on that plane made me cry,
thinking, ‘I am just leaving.’
We kept thinking,
‘When we will be able to go back?’
I got the phone call from my overseer
that they wanted to get Abaco finished up,
and I was thrilled.
I was praying for that for 15 months
—to go back and finish this project.
When that hurricane blew through,
it may have taken a lot of things with it,
but it sure didn’t take your faith.
And it sure didn’t take away
your relationship with God.
When we got to Nassau,
the friends sang “Unfailing Love” to us.
And so now they landed,
and we sang it to them.
It was overwhelming to listen and hear
the beautiful voices
of the brothers and sisters
singing about the love that we have
among all of us.
To have seen
what the friends went through
and how their hearts can be soothed—
To have a place of worship
is such a wonderful privilege.
It was a joy to be back at the hall,
and it felt
like we were victorious once again.
It doesn’t matter if there are
10 publishers or 10,000 publishers,
Jehovah is going to take care of them.
It has been a reunion,
a piece of Paradise.
No matter what happens to us,
whether it be
a natural disaster or unrest or war,
we’re always going to be
there for our brothers.
We’re going to support one another,
we’re going to help each other,
and we’re going to be OK with Jehovah’s help.
It’s so encouraging
to see our brothers and sisters
back in their Kingdom Hall!
Their love and appreciation
for Jehovah and his organization is evident,
and they’re making good use
of their Kingdom Hall.
For this year’s Memorial,
the 47 publishers of the two congregations
had a combined attendance of 217.
Before we conclude,
we have a new feature in  JW Library®
that we’re excited to share with you.
JW Library  will soon support
Playlists in the Personal Study tab.
With this feature,
you’ll be able to add videos,
audio programs,
and pictures to personal playlists.
For example, you can make playlists
of your favorite theocratic songs
or of videos to use in the ministry.
You can also make a playlist
of pictures to use in a talk,
and then share it
with the audio/video support brothers
so that they can use  JW Library
to display the pictures.
Look for an update
to the app in the coming weeks.
Brothers and sisters,
what have we discussed?
Whatever trials or tests
you’re dealing with personally,
be assured that Jehovah sees you
and is aware of what you’re going through.
He too is affected and is moved to help.
So continue to lean on Jehovah in prayer,
keep up your good spiritual routine,
stay busy in the ministry,
and reach out to others for support.
Yes, continue to make Jehovah your refuge!
And please know
that we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.